Well we've got our character and our textures in the scene here.
We've put up the idli animation in the animator.
I think our next task is to go ahead and bring in the other animation clips.
So I'm going to open up the object the character object here and go down to the bottom and here are
our animation clips.
Here's the idol that we've already put in.
We can now let's now bring in the run.
So let's just grab this and drag it in.
And there it is.
Now what we need to do is figure out how to transition from the idol to the run.
We can make our transitions here in the animator by right clicking on a clip and choosing make transition
and then dragging over and then clicking on another clip and I'll do the same with the run make transition
and drag down here so now we have transitions going from the idol to the run and from the run to the
idol.
Now we can trigger these in a lot of different ways but the way I'm going to do it is I'm going to create
a parameter and I'm going to use an integer.
So over here you've got layers and you've got parameters.
So if you go to parameter and click on the little plus right here that will give you the menu where
you can choose an integer.
So I click that.
And here we go.
Now I'm going to call this.
Well since it's an animation parameter let's call it animation.
P A R parameter.
And here we go.
So this particular integer parameter we're going to refer to in our script in our character controller
script and we just need to now define what happens at 0 or 1 or 2 or whatever.
So at integer zero we can say that you'll transfer back to the idle.
So here let me scroll down here and under conditions let me open this up a bit.
So under conditions we can say that when the animation parameter equals zero the character will transition
back to the idle.
All right so we can now choose the other transition here and we can click on the plus to create another
transition.
Another condition I should say and say that when the animation parameter is equal to one
then it will transition to the run.
OK so in this script we're going to be telling unity what animation clip to transition to by changing
this parameter from 0 to 1.
All right so now let's bring in our jump script here our jump clip.
Move over here and bring this in.
So here's our jump.
So now let's think about this if we want to transition from the run to the jump.
That transition should be a new parameter right.
We've already used 0 and 1 here to go to the jump.
We could create a condition where animation parameter equals to right and then to go back from the jump
to the run that we've already established that the run is one right to where the animation parameter
is one.
So let's say that condition going from the jump to the run is one.
All right so here we have going from the idle to the run we have one and go in from the jump to the
run.
We have one.
So to go to the idle is zero to go to the run is one and go to go to the jump is two.
Now we can of course as I said have many animation clips and this animator window can look like a spider
web.
If you have a whole lot of animation clips to work with.
All right so now we have transitions from the idle to the run from the run to the jump.
We need to be able to jump directly from the idle as well.
If we're just standing there we want to be able to jump up.
So from the idle to the jump we've established that the jump is too.
So I'll create a condition where the animation parameter equals to here.
And we've established that the idle is zero so we go back to the idle and that transition we create
a condition where the animation parameter equals zero.
And we go.
All right so now we have transitions going to and from all of our clips but there's not much we can
do with it at this point in time because we have no way to trigger them to be able to trigger them we're
going to need a script.
So let's go back here and I'm going to go collapse this back down and to create a script.
We just need to right click in the assets window go to create and create a C-sharp script.
And for this we just we could call it just player and there we go.
Now if I double click this unity will search for Monto develop and open that up so that we can edit
our script.
And here it is.
OK so this is the default code that we get whenever we create a new script.
This up here is referring to particular libraries that this script is going to be using.
This is our public class this name right here needs to be the exact same as the name of the script here.
So you can get errors if you accidentally change those somehow the start function happens one time at
the beginning of the game and the update function happens on every frame.
So it's cycling through this function on every frame of the game.
So the first thing we need to do is figure out how to connect this script with both our character controller
and our animator controller because these are where we're going to control the character.
We're going to control the movement of the character around our scene with the character controller
and we're going to trigger the animations with the animation controller.
So these are important things to be able to connect to.
So first of all what we need to do is create a couple of new variables.
One is going to be the character controller.
It's going to be a private variable because it only needs to be seen within the script and will call
the name of this variable controller.
The next thing we need is a variable for our animator controller and we also want a private variable
for that and we'll have this variable be of type animator and we'll call it an.
So these two variables will allow us to connect to the carriage controller and the animator controller
but we need to initialize them when the game first begins.
So if we come down here and do the start function we can say we want to use the controller variable
to get to the component
of the character controller here.
And we want to do the same thing for the animator controller so we'll use that variable to get the game
object that is the component that we want here.
And we want to get the animator
when we go.
So these two lines will go and find and connect with our character controller and our animator controller.
So now that we have our controllers set up lets go ahead and test out our animation parameters and see
if they work for us to do that to come down to the update function down here.
And I want to say that if I press the up arrow the run animation should trigger should turn on.
So what I'm going to say is if the input
for a key happens to be the up arrow then what I want to do
is use that animator control or variable and I want to set the integer of that animation parameter to
1.
And there we go and save that.
So once again if we get an input from the up arrow then change the animation parameter in the animator
controller to one.
And we've already defined that one will trigger the run.
So let's see if this works I'm going to go back to unity and I'm going to need to take this player script
and drag it over here onto my character and then if we take a look at it if we click on it we can see
that that player script is now a component down here in our inspector.
All right we've got a warning here.
It says that the character controller here isn't being used.
And that's true we're not using it yet and that's fine.
So let's just hit play and see what happens.
So we have our idol going and if we hit the up arrow you can see he runs.
Now if I take my finger off the up arrow he continues to run because there is no way for him to get
back to the idle using the animation parameter of zero.
So let's turn off the game here and let's go back to our script and now what we need to do is just tell
unity that when the up arrow isn't being pushed.
We want to go back to the idle pose.
So if our input key is up.
Otherwise else we can say that the and him set integer should be
animation parameter of zero.
And there we go.
So now what we're saying is if the input key is pushed and it's the up key then transition to the run
else if nothing is happening then go back to the idle.
So let's save that go back to unity.
What's hit play.
And so we push the up arrow and he runs and we lift up off the up arrow and he stops.
All right so we have our run and our idle cycles working out.
That's good.
In the next video we'll work on connecting the jump animation and moving the character around.
See it then.